## Google-AppScript-Telegram-Bot
*A google script program to get info from a google sheet and parse that info in a telegram bot*
I created this bot so I could easily retrieve information from google sheets through a telegram bot without having to enter google sheets myself. I also used AppScript despite having no experience with Googlescript or even Javascript because the bot will work as long as you have internet connection and it is absolutely free, without the need of hosting a server. <br />
Personally, I made this bot to make my life and my fellow technician's lives easier during my National Service in Singapore. I used it to store and keep track the serial number, name, and image of the tools that are used by my platform to maintain and repair a specific machine. The telegram bot will receive a message from the user that is either identical to row 1 (Serial Number ie. 3, 105...) or row 2 (Name ie. BALL PIN HAMMER) and the bot would send the info in what I think a JSON format to Google Script server where the code would compare it to the information found in the google sheet and in turn return correct information accordingly to the telegram bot and output that information to the user. The biggest issue that I wanted to solve with this bot was that new technicians like myself might not be familiar with what each tool looked like, so I was also figuring out how to output an image to Telegram. Luckily, Telegram automatically transforms embedded image urls into the actual image, which made my life easier. <br />
For example, sending a "1" to the Telegram bot would cause the bot to promptly reply "Serial Number: 1, Name: CHISEL, Image: insertimageurlhere ", along with an image of the tool itself. <br />
The good thing about this bot is that it can be easily expanded to include more rows, columns, functions such as adding/removing elements from the spreadsheet.
I received a lot of inspiration from this youtube video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xcTCUB0rMc8 and modified it for my own use, it is especially difficult because I don't speak the language. <br />
I hope whoever sees this finds this useful.
